>> Hello and welcome to
the Haskell Weekly podcast.
I'm your, host Taylor Fausak.
I'm the Director of Software
Engineering at ACI Learning.
And I'm very excited because
today we have a special guest:
Andrew Boardman, the Executive
Director of the Haskell Foundation.
Thanks for joining me today, Andrew.
>> I'm really glad to be here.
>> We're really glad have you,
so, uh, let's get right into it.
And, uh, could you tell me
a little about yourself?
Let's start with that.
>> Yeah!
I've been in the industry for
a very long time at this point.
Um, I have a background, mostly in C,
C++ kind of lower level programming.
And, uh, a lot of emphasis on
communication technologies.
So I do a lot of work on
instant messaging technologies.
And I did some on desktop
publishing, desktop publishing
some on, Oh boy, let's see.
Um, Vector graphics programs.
Uh, for a while, I was a tech
lead in the Windows build lab.
So the lab that actually builds the
daily builds and the golden masters
for the Windows operating system.
>> That's cool.
>> Yeah.
Worked at, uh, Quark software, which
did the desktop publishing software.
Uh, I did, uh, a little
over six years at Microsoft.
Working in a variety of different
divisions on a variety of different
projects, mostly instant messaging.
And, uh, I came to functional
programming, sort of by accident.
So, uh, I'm also a serial entrepreneur
and in one of the, uh, one of my
companies, I helped hire a guy out of
the University of Washington PhD program.
And he came and he did some amazing work
for us, and he knew a lot about functional
programming and tried to incorporate that
into one of the startups that I worked on.
And I said, great use
whatever tools you want.
That's not as important
to me as what you produce.
And a little bit later I tried using it.
And for the first time I was
able to do a nested loop without
bugs on the first attempt.
And that was kind of an eye-opener for me.
Uh, and then after that, uh, I,
I was curious about the state
of research in computer science.
So I've been very focused on how
you do things like how you build a
software processes, how you manage
people and less about the technical
underpinnings and some of the theory.
And honestly, at that time, I didn't
think the theory was all that important.
But what I tried to do was figure out
how are we going to solve the really
big problems in computer science?
How are we going to solve
problems like concurrency, fault
tolerance, realtime systems.
Uh, the, the things that have kind of
stymied the industry for a long time and
particularly as CPUs become multi-core
instead of faster on the Silicon.
And Moore's law seems to be
kind of getting to, to its end.
Uh, we don't have really great stories
in most programming about how we're going
to take advantage of those multi-cores
in a way that isn't just running multiple
programs on the same computer at the
same time, having that work better.
Having worked on operating
systems and build systems.
Threading and parallelism and
concurrency are critical to solving
some of the harder problems.
And they're really tough.
Like if you've ever done a lot of
mutex and semaphore kind of coding, you
know, how brittle that can be and how
difficult it is to actually debug it.
Especially when you have to have
something like a kernel debugger to
figure out what's going on at the very
lowest levels of the operating system.
So looking into that, I found functional
programming as one of the approaches
in research that was the most likely to
tackle these problems in a serious way.
And being me, I went for
the functional-est of the
functional programming languages
and thus found Haskell.
Uh, I, you know, I, in my career,
I've learned maybe three dozen
different programming languages.
Um, some of them are
industrial like C, C++ I did.
I learned Turbo Pascal, and that's
where I did some of my first serious
programming a long, long time ago, but
I also have friends who made little toy
programming languages for various reasons.
Uh, one friend of mine, uh,
created MOO the MUD Object
Oriented programming language.
Yeah.
Turned into LambdaMOO,
which was a PARC project.
Uh, and it, you know, all of
these different languages were
imperative in different forms.
Sometimes they kind of touched on
little bit of functionalism here
and there, but it was basically
imperative and Haskell was the first
one that really kicked my butt.
I had a hard time from that
imperative to functional, uh,
mindset change that you have to do.
And between different syntax that I've
really used before, and that mind shift,
it took me a long time to really dig
in and figure out what was going on.
And it kind of renewed my
interest in programming in a way.
Uh, because it'd been a little stale,
like if I learned a new programming
language, okay, this is another one.
It's just different syntax
over the same concepts.
I'm not sure why they made this
new programming language, but fine.
I'll go ahead and tackle this.
Haskell was fundamentally different
and, and functional programming was
a fundamentally different approach.
And, uh, that difficulty was also one
of the things that hooked me and, and
made me really want to dig in more.
And then in addition to that, um,
it was actually solving problems
in really interesting ways.
And, uh, the lazy evaluation, uh,
and the, the ways that you can avoid
recalculating the same value over and
over by storing things, in thunks.
Like th this, this was an approach
that was actually addressing the
problems that I had identified.
>> Right.
>> And then, so I tried
to do a startup based on that.
Uh, it didn't work out, but not
necessarily for Haskell reasons.
Although I do have to say trying
to learn Haskell by yourself.
From first principles, uh,
with just books and stuff.
Is a very difficult thing, like getting
into the community, getting on IRC
or the FP Slack or, or any of these
where you can ask questions of people
who've been there and done that before
and, and enjoy mentoring new people.
It makes it so much easier
and highly recommended.
But I tried to do it by myself
and it didn't really work out.
And then I did some other consulting
for awhile in embedded systems of C++.
Then when that contract started winding
down, because the company started winding
down, I looked for a job in, in Haskell.
Like I figured if I'm going to have
to get a new job, why don't I try to
learn how to do Haskell and production?
Why don't I try to do something for real.
And, uh, took a couple of stabs at it and
SimSpace bit, and, uh, had a wonderful
two and a half years at some SimSpace.
And, uh, when the, when the job opening
was announced for the Executive Director
of the new Haskell Foundation, my first
reaction was, this is my dream job.
This is absolutely my dream job.
I won't ever get it, but if I don't
apply, I certainly won't get it.
So I'll give it a shot.
And to my amazement, I got shortlisted.
And worked on my presentation and my, my,
uh, my vision statement and put, put my
heart and soul into that and then gave
the presentation to the interim board.
And then to my absolute
amazement, I was offered the job.
And, uh, haven't looked back since.
>> Congratulations!
Always a good thing to
land your dream job.
>> I think so.
>> Um, so yeah.
Thank you for sharing a
little about yourself and your
story and how you got here.
Uh, there were a couple of things
you mentioned that I wanted to dig
into a little bit before we move on.
Uh, the first is that coming from a
Windows background, I feel like Haskell
itself is kind of a strange choice.
And, you know, maybe for a while, it
had not the best story on Windows.
And I could see, I don't
know what the timeline was.
I don't know when F# came into being, but.
That could, that could be, you
know, a appropriate windows choice.
Um, but that being said, one of the things
that you mentioned about Haskell that
was appealing was that it's like the most
functional of the functional languages.
So languages like F# or Scala,
you know, they make a lot of
concessions to other paradigms.
Um, so I guess, it is that pure
functionality what drew you to Haskell
or was there, was there anything
else going on in that consideration?
>> I think that the pure
functionality is a big consideration
because when you have that purity,
it is not the pejorative purity.
It is purity in the sense of
how the runtime system evaluates
things and the assumptions that
that runtime system can make.
And so, uh, for example, uh, one of
the things that I keep hearing about
is how STM is this game changer.
You know, the killer app for Haskell
and the more I dig into it, the
more I believe that to be the case,
STM was tried in other languages.
It's, it's not unique to Haskell, but
the implementation in Haskell is unique.
Because the choices that have been
made in both the structure of the
language and the runtime mean that you
can get a real implementation of STM
that doesn't have a bunch of warts.
And, uh, as, as the, the folks at
TypeClasses.com say like, it just works.
Like you don't ha it just works.
You don't have to think about it.
You don't, it's not, in some ways, it's
not a sufficient problem to garnish a
lot of attention because you just, it's
just the thing that you use and then it
works and then you move on with your life.
And I think this is kind of
true with Haskell in many ways.
We take for granted so many things in
Haskell that just work and they work great
and you don't have to think about them.
And then we get to focus on the
problem areas that we do have.
And I think people over-focus on
those problem areas in some sense,
when they're evaluating the language,
because they're not, you know, you
don't see the things that just work.
>> Right.
Yeah.
I, I, I'm familiar with the Type
Classes article that you're referencing,
where they're, you know, writing about
software transactional memory and
what it means and how Haskell does it
and why it works so well in Haskell.
And I like that, it's kind of
the, um, Yeah, it works so well
that you just take it for granted.
And so many things in
Haskell are like that.
And like you said, uh, that can cause
people to, over-focus not even people
new to the language, but people that are
really familiar with it, you know, you
get these little paper cuts and you spend
all your time complaining about them
because everything else works so well.
Uh, which in a way is kind of good,
but also kind of gives the wrong
impression to people that may be new.
>> And what we want to do
with the Foundation is actually
address those  paper cuts.
Uh, and it's not so much.
I see the, the, the purpose
of the foundation isn't
to solve all the problems.
The purpose of the foundation is
to bring the community together
and focus the efforts to make
sure that we make significant
progress on some of these areas.
So in, you know, we have issues
with CI, we have issues with our
builds and, and the reproducibility
and increment ability of those.
So what we need to do as a community
is focus on those problem areas.
Stop having wars between different
points of view and communicate, and
really come up with what is the right
solution for the overall community.
And I think that the Foundation has been
exceptionally, uh, I think that we've
been very successful at that already.
So we we've brought together a number of
groups that have been at odds in the past.
And getting them to talk constructively
together and actually figure
out what the right solution is.
And I think we'll continue to do that.
And I give a lot of credit to that, to
our CTO, Emily Pillmore, who is doing
a fantastic job of taking the technical
approach of, okay, here's our big problem.
And here are the right people to
get into the room to talk about
it and figure out the solution.
Hash out the solution and then
try to figure out how to make the
technical changes to get it done.
>> Yeah, it seems to me like she
has done an excellent job of that so far.
And the Foundation itself has only really
been together for a few months, right?
>> Yeah, we started full time,
uh, two months ago almost to the day.
So, you know, overall we have not
been in existence very long, but
I think that we already have a lot
to show for, for what we've done.
And, uh, you know, one of the things
you can get into very niche, nerdy
areas with, with Haskell in general,
but with programmers in particular
and, uh, you know, our, our text UT-8
proposal is one of those cases, right?
So the idea is that we take our
internal text representation from
UTF-16, turned it into UTF-8.
Most of the time, UTF-8
is the correct solution.
It's not only smaller because it
encodes in a more compressed format.
But, in most use cases, it's
going to be more performant.
And when you think about data
locality, you don't want a giant
chunks of memory, when you can have
it in much smaller chunks of memory.
You still need the UTF-16
representations, and we're not
talking about getting rid of them.
But those are more for special
cases where you're taking something
from maybe an older encoding.
Uh, especially like an East Asian
encoding and trying to turn it
into a UTF kind of encoding.
And in those cases, maybe the, uh,
the default performance will degrade
very slightly, but on the other hand,
almost all the other performance
will get significantly better.
So this is just something that,
that has needed to happen.
We needed to get the right people
into the room to make it happen.
And at this point we have a
plan on what we're going to do.
>> That's excellent to hear.
And I know that's one of those paper
cuts where I have heard about it a lot.
And based on the volume of complaints,
you might assume that it's some huge
problem that like text performance in
Haskell is abysmal because of UTF-16.
But that's not the case in like, as
I understand it, Windows uses UTF-16
behind the scenes or something like it.
So it's not a completely unheard of.
Um, but yeah.
Thanks for giving an overview of that.
Uh, what other kind of irons
in the fire does the Haskell
Foundation have going on right now?
>> Well, you talked
about, uh, Windows support.
And, uh, we are really, this, this
is an area that has been interesting.
So Windows has been something that has
been supported by, by GHC and the Haskell
community more or less for a long time.
But clearly the compiler was built on Unix
and it's kind of a Unix first situation.
So getting this tool set onto Windows,
which is these days, what I run.
I, I come to, I did work at Microsoft for
a long time, but I was also an extremely
early Linux, adopter and Mac programmer
before I was a Windows programmer.
And, uh, uh.
>> Got all your bases covered.
>> Yeah, I got, I've
done basically all of them.
I like the Windows platform and
having worked on Windows itself, I
understand the technical excellence
that's going on inside the kernel.
It's just different enough from
Unix that trying to do something
Unix-y  on windows is difficult.
There's, there's a lot of friction there.
And right now, that was
interesting, right now.
Um, we sort of have this, this almost
emulation layer between the way GHC
wants to talk to the operating system,
which it assumes has Unix style to figure
out how to make that work on Windows.
Uh, we would like to fix that,
but that's a longer term thing.
That's a, that's a pretty massive change.
In the shorter term, we want to make
it easier to just install GHC and
get it up and running on Windows.
Uh, and so, Emily again, has gotten a
bunch of experts in this area together
to figure out what the right choice is.
And I think we have a
plan on that as well.
It's not the slickest thing.
Like it's not, it's not just simple,
unfortunately, because of the ways
that that GHC has been developed.
And not just GHC, but the libraries.
So there's a lot of libraries out there
that are very fundamental to the way
that people build Haskell applications.
That assume Unix  as well.
So we've got a lot of work to try to
make uh GHC a Windows, uh, native,
if you will kind of, uh, program.
I think we'll get there eventually, but
that's going to require a lot of work.
Uh, probably a lot of money, uh, because
there's, there's just going to be
going out and finding the right experts
and, and trying to get them to do it.
I don't think that there has been
historically enough volunteer
effort to, to make that viable
as a 100% volunteer project.
>> Right.
It, it sounds promising.
And, uh, it does seem like a lot of
the volunteer effort, people that are
interested in Haskell as a hobby typically
are on Unix or these days maybe even
Nix, uh, or macOS so you don't get a
lot of that non POSIX representation.
Um, that being said, similar to you, I
have, you know, right now on my desk, a
Windows PC, Linux PC, and a Mac laptop.
And I use Haskell on all of them.
And most of the time, almost all
the time, in fact, it just works.
So again, like this is one of
those paper cuts that maybe gets
talked about a little too much.
So, um, but I'm happy to hear that
the situation will be improving.
>> Yeah.
If you can, if you can figure
out how to install it, it
generally works really well.
I think the, the, the group that, that
has built Stack, uh, Michael Snoyman
and company have done an excellent job.
They've got one approach to how
they do the installations that,
that makes it work, uh, quite well.
And it may be that we adopt most
of their approach, uh, in general.
But it could get better.
And, you know, it's, it's that once you
get it onto the machine, then it works.
But I wonder if there is
some selection bias there.
So if it is difficult to put it onto a
Windows machine, Therefore people who
are very Windows centric, try it out.
They get very frustrated.
They don't do it.
We don't get a lot of
them in the community.
>> Right, they bounce off.
>> My, my hope, you know, w as,
as the, the Haskell Foundation, we are
trying to drive more adoption of Haskell.
One of the ways that we can do that is
by making it easier for more people to
bring it up and install it and try it out.
So one of the big reasons that we're
making this effort in the Windows
installer is to try to make it easier
for people on Windows to use Haskell
so that they can get involved.
And then maybe if we get that, if
we can get that snowball kind of
started, then we'll get more and
then we'll get some people that
are very passionate about Windows.
And having Haskell on Windows and
then they'll volunteer and it'll just
get easier and easier after that.
That that is definitely our goal.
>> Sounds like a virtuous cycle.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
Um, so that, that sounds again,
very promising, very exciting.
And, uh, it sounds like one of the
ways that people could help with
this, and other things in general, is
to, you know, be more active in the
community, and try to onboard, you
know, evangelize a little bit, I guess.
Um, but what are some other ways
that individuals could help out?
Uh, both the Haskell Foundation
and the broader Haskell community.
>> Well, there, there's
a few different ways.
So volunteering is
clearly the biggest way.
If you can put your time and energy
into it, you're going to make
the biggest, uh, biggest change.
Uh, but it doesn't
necessarily just mean coding.
And so one of the ways that you could
help is by finding an open source
project that you are particularly
passionate about or interested in, or
curious about and volunteering to help.
Make changes to that.
Submit some PRs.
That's one way to do it, but there's
also a big need for documentation
improvements and updating.
So, uh, we have, uh, one of our board
members who is doing a fantastic job of
rallying the community around updating,
improving, fixing the documentation.
You know, if you go to Haskell.org,
there have been historically a lot of
dead links and, uh, dated material.
And so they've been going through and
fixing the links and updating material
and making it much more friendly for
people to come into the community and
find the resources that they need.
Uh, one of the things that we're trying
to, to spearhead is a sense of community.
And in particular, we would like people to
volunteer, to become community moderators.
So that when there are conflicts,
when there are people that are, uh,
either arguing or not treating each
other well, that we have some way of
resolving those conflicts in a way that
is consistent with the Guidelines for
Respectful Communication that Simon
Peyton Jones, and the GHC steering
committee came up with, uh, and are
foundational to the Haskell Foundation.
So one of the things that I would like to
do, one of my goals is to get volunteers.
Both in the core Haskell Foundation
community, as well as affiliated
communities to have training on conflict
resolution, situational deescalation,
uh, active listening, and a lot of these
techniques that are well-known throughout
the industry and other industries.
Uh, but having those skills is something
that's great for you personally.
Uh, and it means that our
community is better off overall.
So we're exploring ways of
providing that training.
Uh, I know some materials that people
can look at today to start acquiring
those skills, but I think training with
a mentor also makes a big difference.
>> That sounds very, uh, exciting.
I am a moderator of the Haskell
subreddit, which is not, you know,
an official community and not
associated with Foundation in any way.
But, um, that's one of the things
that I have struggled with in that
role as well of, seeing a thread
develop in a direction where you kind
of know where it's going to end up
and it isn't going to be productive.
But maybe lacking some of the tools.
You know, in my own repertoire to
deescalate that in a way where people
don't feel like they're just getting
shut down, but that, you know, w
we all know where this is going.
Let's not, you know, snipe at each other.
Let's be productive.
>> Yeah, I think we, we want to
assume good intent most of the time.
And oftentimes, it's not bad
intent that causes these issues.
It's the communication styles
that rub the wrong way.
Or it's somebody who makes assumptions
and those assumptions are not warranted.
But how do you help them realize that
they're making assumptions about this
other person or that person's intent?
We see this on a regular basis, sadly,
where, uh, somebody will step up.
They'll say, I want to
help make a difference.
They start trying to, to take action
in the community to, to make things
better, and then somebody will get
defensive about it and make assumptions
about their intent, make assumptions
about what they're intending to
do, and then react negatively.
Uh, ideally, you know, it's one of
those classic, like if you have nothing
good to say, don't say anything at all.
But, once somebody starts down that
road, if you have the skill sets,
you can deescalate the situation.
You can say, Hey, think about it from
the other person's point of view.
What do you think that
they're trying to accomplish?
How do you think that the way that
you reacted comes off to that?
What were you trying to do?
What, what, what are you worried about?
What is the thing that
is causing you stress?
When you get these techniques,
it becomes much easier.
Um, but you need those techniques.
And in tech in general, I think we,
we don't give enough value to the
soft skills, the interpersonal skills,
and they are a set of skill sets.
If you're not good at them, you
can't do well at those skills.
So the, the classic example is
the exceptional engineer who was
promoted to lead or manager who has
no leader manager skills and not
enough of the interpersonal skills.
And then they flail for a few years
while they try to acquire them, but
they don't necessarily get the support
and the training that they need to
acquire them in a reasonable speed.
Uh, I think that's a mistake that
the industry makes in general.
I think we're addressing
that in, in many cases.
But, within the Haskell community.
I think we need to get very proactive.
I think we need to not only do the
moderation, but we also need to
empower the moderators with the skills
that they need to do the job well.
And then the payoff for that is going
to be a bigger, happier community that
is cooperating more and fighting less.
>> Absolutely.
I agree with everything you said.
And the only additional thing I have
to throw in the mix is that Haskell,
as a community, is very geographically
distributed, almost surprisingly so.
I often, you know, see posts or get up
profiles from people all over the world.
And there's an assumption, I think, that
if you're communicating online in, in
majority English speaking forum, that
everyone is a native English speaker.
And I think a lot of disagreements,
strife or whatever can come
from that translation layer.
And, you know, not being familiar
with idioms or not catching things
that a native speaker may catch.
So um having a third party moderator
or arbitrator come in and say,
I don't, I don't think you two
are actually disagreeing here.
There's just an impedance
mismatch going on.
That that can be hugely helpful.
>> Yeah, we've seen a
number of violent agreements
in the community over time.
And I w you know, I love the community.
One of the reasons that this is
my dream job is because of the
community around the language.
The language is great.
Don't get me wrong.
The runtime is great, but the thing
that makes Haskell what it is, is
actually the community around it.
The people that are absolutely passionate
and creating all of the foundational
libraries that we build upon.
We need to support those people.
And.
Uh, we've had a big problem
with, for instance, open source
project moderator burnout.
And one of the reasons I think that
is, is because we don't give them, we
don't proactively give them the skills
that they need to be able to manage a
group of people, a group of volunteers.
Uh, help them with their communication
skills so that they are not constantly
feeling like they're fighting defensive
actions against a bunch of people
that don't get their vision or, or are
trying to do something different with
their project than what they want.
Where they want it to go or
where they think it should go.
One of the reasons that we want to do this
affiliation with different communities
and projects is so that we can help
those projects get the same skills, the
same people skills, the same training.
So that they're not struggling with
the same problems over and over.
Um, and you know, if you, if
you are in a project where
everybody is on the same page.
Everybody has a shared vision of
where they want that project to go.
And they're supporting each other and
ideas are bouncing around and you know,
you, you put up a PR and instead of nasty
comments about how bad your code is.
Instead it's have you,
have you tried this?
Have you tried this?
Then it becomes exciting and
energetic, and everybody wants
to spend more time doing it.
And you know, you make friends for life
and you have this close knit community.
And that's what we want out of Haskell.
So when a project affiliates with
the Haskell Foundation, part of
that is adopting the Guidelines for
Respectful Communication so that we
know we're all on the same page about
how everybody should be treated.
And that does not mean that
everybody thinks the same.
What that means is that we are
respectful even when we disagree.
>> I love it.
That's the world that I want to live in.
Um, so we've talked a lot about what
individuals can do to support the
Foundation and support the community.
Uh, for those of us that are lucky enough
to be working with Haskell professionally,
um, what can we do as companies or as
individuals in a company to support
the Foundation and the community?
>> Yeah, we have
a sponsorship program.
So we have a number of wonderful
companies who have stepped up to
support the Foundation financially.
Uh, and there's a few
different ways to do that.
Writing a check is, is obviously
one of the best ways to do it.
It gives us the opportunity
to prioritize and figure out
where that money is best used.
Uh, we have a list of
prioritized projects.
Like if we get enough money, we
are going to help the GHC devs
with their CI infrastructure.
This would make them substantially more,
uh, more productive because they would
spend less time worrying about the dev
ops related side of what they're doing.
And more time working on fixing
bugs, tracking down issues, enhancing
things, working on performance.
We want a budget so that we
can train these moderators.
You know, there, there's a lot of
things that if we have money, we
can, we can make a big difference.
So, get ahold of us and sponsor
the Foundation, write a check,
uh, encourage your company to
support the Haskell Foundation.
So the way to think about this
is like any open source project.
You're getting it for free and you
can build your company based on
Haskell without having to pay a dime.
And that's fantastic.
That's actually what we want.
We want you to be able to try out
the language to build your company
to gain a huge amount of success.
And then after that, we want you to
look at supporting your community.
And that's not necessarily
just the Haskell Foundation.
There are other open
source projects out there.
There are other organizations like, like
Haskell.org that that could use support.
But fundamentally, you know, if you
make a lot of money using Haskell as
your technology stack, You need to give
back, you need to support those tools.
And it's, it's what I call
enlightened self-interest.
You're also going to get better tools.
You're also going to, uh, get
your name out there as one of the
companies that uses Haskell and then.
In our materials, we have our list of
sponsors and people that are actively
looking for Haskell jobs, know that
they can go to that list of sponsors and
say, Hey, what are your open positions?
Can I apply?
So it's not pure philanthropy,
but, uh, I think that if you.
Particularly, if you have pet peeves
about the state of the tool set.
About, uh, the, the speed of the
compiler, you know, whatever it is.
You need to support the people that
are trying to make the difference.
You need to support the, the groups and,
uh, the technical agenda that allows us
to address those issues in a big way.
We have plenty of ambition.
Ambition is not a problem.
What we need is resources
to make it happen.
And we know that if we had a, you
know, In a fantasy world, millions and
millions or tens of millions of dollars.
I know like the projects that I would
write checks for, and I w I feel like
I would find the right contractors,
the right consultants, have them write
up the plans, maybe go through a re
refresh request for proposals process.
We know what we want to do.
And one of the interesting things
about Haskell is, that there really
are no full time developers of GHC.
It's all a volunteer effort.
There are a few people that
are paid like a Ben Gamari.
For instance, we do support him
through the Foundation today through
a very generous grant from GitHub.
But the amount that we're
talking about is not sufficient
for someone of his skillset.
So, what I would ideally like to do
is I would like to have full-time
people that work on the compiler
and that is their full-time job.
I think we need a release manager.
I think we need a professional
dev ops person for GHC.
Uh, I would like to have a speak, you
know, calling back to our community
efforts in the moderation, I would like
to have a full-time community manager at
Haskell Foundation that helps all of the
moderators for all of the other groups.
And, you know, schedules the training
and make sure, and is the escalation
path, if something goes particularly
wrong in one of those groups.
So I think if you are out in the
community, if you think that Haskell
is a, an amazing language and should
be adopted more, talk to your companies
and say, this is, this is important.
This is how we give back to that
community and write a big check.
The other option is if, if the big
checks are not the, the, the right
choice for a particular company, is
there are other resources that are in
kind donations that if, if a company
wants to support, but you know, is, is
maybe still in that bootstrapping phase.
Maybe they can encourage their developers,
uh, in a soft way to volunteer on
various, uh, projects in the community.
Help make a difference, like be, be
one of those companies that is there
and making the community better.
Don't be a company that is using all of
our tools and the work of all of these
volunteers and then not giving back.
>> Yeah.
So those are all excellent suggestions.
And you touched on a lot of
things in there that I want
to dig into a little bit more.
Uh, so I guess starting from the back
there with in kind contributions.
Um, so ITProTV uses Haskell.
And one of the most valuable things
that I've found from being a lead
there is that when my team struggles
with something, that's not a, you
know, that's not the fault of my team.
That's usually the fault of some
documentation or some process or
just something has gone wrong.
And so it's really easy to unblock that
person or unblock the team and say,
okay, look, I know the answer here.
Let me tell you the answer, but
it's a lot more valuable to say.
Oh, I know the answer.
I should give this back to the
community so that the next person
doesn't run into this problem.
>> Absolutely.
And there's a few
different levels of that.
So I think if you, if you find a
problem in Haskell and you do a Google
search, you will often find results.
And you'll go to a blog post or something
that will say, okay, here, here's how
you solve this particular problem.
One of the issues is that sometimes
those are like seven, 10 years
old and they don't really relate
to what's going on anymore.
Uh, and one approach is to make a new
blog post that says, okay, this whole
blog post had this information and I'm
updating it with this other information.
And that is valuable.
That is absolutely valuable to do.
The next level is to try to make
that more official, to try to get
something onto Haskell.org or a related
website where you can say, okay.
I ran into this problem.
I'm sure other people are
going to run into this problem.
Here is the correct solution.
Or maybe you get onto like the functional
programming Slack or the IRC, and say,
I need to talk to people who really
understand this area and we need to hash
out what is the right solution to this?
Uh, absolutely get ahold of the Haskell
Foundation if you see one of these issues.
Because part of what we do is
connect to the right people to
each other so that these problems
can be solved once and for all.
And that gets to my next level, which is.
If this is a problem that is
more fundamental to a technology.
Or maybe one of the open source
libraries that, that we build all
of our Haskell, uh, programs on.
Let's solve the problem for real,
let's actually dig in and come up
with what is the correct solution.
And sometimes those are
very non-trivial solutions.
Uh, I remember something going
on with, uh, uh, Postgres.
And, and I'm, I'm unfortunately
forgetting off the top of my head,
what it was, but, you know, it's,
it's one of those really subtle
issues that can happen at the margins.
And I think it was Matt Parsons
that was saying, yeah, we ran into
this and I think we're solving it
in like persist, but I'm not sure.
I I'm I'm I am absolutely not saying
that Matt Parsons said any of that stuff.
I'm trying to paraphrase.
But, the point is that people
were following up with some
of these library authors and
saying, I ran into this problem.
Let's figure out what the right
solution is across the board.
And that is the most, the most,
uh, valuable thing that you can do.
And I think for, for a company, that
runs into any of these problems.
One of the most valuable things you
can do is allow your developers to
really track down these problems and,
uh, you know, run them to ground,
as I think it said in the military.
And determine what the correct fundamental
solution is and let them help make
that change, help them fix it for real.
>> Yeah, it's funny that you.
>> Then it's done.
>> Right.
No one else has to worry about it.
Um, it's funny that you bring up that
Postgres issue because that, I think we
kind of spurred that me, uh, ITProTV.
>> Uh, previous, uh, Haskell Weekly.
That's exactly what it was.
Async exceptions, right?
>> There you go.
Yeah.
And we ran into this problem and we
kind of tilted our head and looked
at it and said that that's weird.
That shouldn't happen.
And, uh, yeah, so we spent some time kind
of running that to ground, as you said.
And fortunately Matt was able to pick it
up and really get to the bottom of it.
Um, But, yeah, that was a great example
of, we could have fixed it in our
application and said, Huh, that was weird.
I hope that doesn't happen again.
But, uh, we decided to, you know,
try to help the overall community.
>> Yeah, and I think.
That that is an incredible way
of giving back to the community.
Another way is to, uh, have like
an internal library that fixes a
problem, or maybe just some internal
code that fixes a particular problem.
Take the time to turn that into
an open source library, put it out
there as an open source solution.
Accept contributions from
people outside of the company.
Uh, I I've seen this, uh, both in
companies that I've worked at before, you
know, SimSpaces has, uh, for instance,
open source some of their libraries and
given back to the community that way.
But, but that's another
great way of doing it.
And I think this is a
popular way of doing it.
But, you also then have to take
on the responsibility of properly
maintaining those libraries.
If you just kind of throw
something out there and then leave
it, uh, it's not as valuable.
>> Right, that's like the blog
post you were talking about where, okay.
Seven years ago, this was
how we'd solve this problem.
But maybe things have
changed in the meantime.
Um, and then you said one thing
earlier that I wanted to follow up
on, which was startling to me, which
is that GHC, there are no full-time
maintainers or developers working on GHC.
And I know that I see Ben Gamari,
his name pop up very frequently.
He seems to be a release
manager and a core developer.
He, he basically does everything.
It's it's phenomenal.
Um, but yeah, th th that was
startling for me to hear, because
we get so many improvements to
GHC and it's such a good compiler.
It produces good code.
You know, I, I enjoy working with it.
Um, so I'm just thinking of this
hypothetical future where we can
have somebody working on it, or many
somebodies is working on it full time.
That would be incredible.
>> W, and we have, you know, to, to
be clear, we have people like Ben that
are essentially full-time working on it.
Although they, they do other work,
which is why I'm saying that they're
not full-time on the compiler.
They, they do have other responsibilities
as well, but they don't, like it is not,
it is not their entire full-time day job.
And, uh, I, when I worked at,
at Microsoft, I worked in the
developer division for a while
and you know, the Visual C++
team at that time was a big team.
It was tens of hardcore developers.
Uh, who they would, you know, and program
managers and a big test team and the
requirements would come in and they
would think about ways that they wanted
to change the compiler or the language.
And they would, uh, spend a bunch
of times speccing out that and
figuring out test plans and then,
you know, writing code and then doing
big releases with golden masters.
And, the, the work that the GHC team does
is incredible given the size of the team
and the constraints that they're under.
And I think we benefit hugely from
the work of, for instance, graduate
students who are working on their
thesis and their thesis happens to
be programming language related.
And so they implement some cool new thing.
Um, I, yeah, Haskell and GHC are kind
of a miracle under the circumstances.
And, uh, there there's that image that
is circulated every now and then of what,
what would happen if GHC blah, blah, blah.
And it's this futuristic
city, futuristic, uh, image.
I think that if we can get enough
resources to really, we don't need,
like, we don't need the same kind of
team has maybe a Visual C++, right?
We don't need that.
But I think there are a few key roles,
like I've mentioned, release manager and
dev ops and a few other things where if
we could get somebody doing that full
time, then that allows people like ben or
Moritz Angermann to leverage their time.
Even more.
They can concentrate more on the things
that they are uniquely qualified to do,
rather than the stuff that has to be
done, because things aren't working today.
>> Right.
So if that sounds like a future that
you want to be a part of listeners, then
convince somebody to write a big check.
>> Big, big check.
>> Um, so yeah, Andrew, we've
been covering a lot of topics here.
We've touched on everything that I, that
I wanted to bring up about the Foundation.
Uh, so as we're closing up here, is there
anything that you would like to talk
about that I have not asked you about?
>> Oh, let's see.
Um, I think one of the things that
we're very interested in is areas
where Haskell is uniquely qualified.
Has a unique value for an industry
or a particular, uh, application.
So, as an example, uh, we recently,
uh, uh, announced that we have
affiliated with the Clash language.
And Clash is a programming language, which
is in Haskell, that allows you to create
hardware designs by writing Haskell code,
using their libraries and their compilers.
Uh, functional language functional
programming seems to uniquely qualified to
do hardware, because it's the same kind of
thought the same kind of, uh, of approach.
I think that there's some
others, you know, we have
inroads in financial software.
Uh, if somebody is going to write a
compiler, I think Haskell is clearly
the right language to write a compiler.
But there's, there's gotta be others.
And I think.
If you, you know, calling back to
the STM conversation, anything doing
parallel, concurrent programming.
Uh, and I think that we, we have the
opportunity to showcase Haskell as the
premier language in different areas.
And, uh, and I encourage your
listeners to think about that.
Like, what is the thing that
the combinations of the Haskell
programming language and the runtime.
Make essentially trivial,
which is actually very
difficult in other languages.
Let us know because we
are looking for those.
Uh, and I, I am incredibly excited about
some of the projects that I'm seeing, that
I had no idea existed in the community.
>> And are you looking for
something along the lines of
like a case study, like Clash?
You know, this is a good example of
how Haskell can be leveraged to do
something that it's uniquely, uh,
You know, it, it can accomplish.
Or are you looking for something like
Haskell could be used in this vertical or
this industry, but it's not and why not?
Let's dig into that.
Or maybe both?
>> Both of those.
Absolutely.
And, uh, if.
If you are very excited about some
emerging market, some emerging
technology, that really isn't on anybody's
radar yet, but you think would be
uniquely, uh, applicable for Haskell.
Uh, let me know.
Those are what we're looking for,
because if we can get in early, we can
be, you can, we can have the language
be synonymous with a particular market.
And then the more of those that
we get to, the easier it is to
sell into existing markets and
say, look at this, this and this.
They're using Haskell almost exclusively.
And they're kicking butt.
You should use Haskell
too, for what you're doing.
>> I like it.
So you mentioned that people should let
you know when they find things like this.
Uh, how should people contact you
and/or the Foundation at large?
>> My, my email address
is andrew@haskell.foundation.
Or, uh, if you want a sort of
more generic, uh, contact, then
contact@haskell.foundation.
I'm also often on uh FP Slack,
the Zulip, uh, IRC, uh, Discourse.
I I'm all over the place.
Uh, often as MyShoggoth..
>> Yeah, I was
curious about that handle.
Could you explain what that means?
>> So a shoggoth is a horror from
the elder gods of HP Lovecraft, uh, fame.
And, where it comes from.
So like, like a lot of online handles,
they come from when I was much younger.
Uh, and they kind of just
stick around for a long time.
But, uh, a friend of mine, I
think still owns shoggoths.com.
And so I couldn't get that one
anymore, I couldn't talk him out of it.
And this was early two thousands.
So this was when like Windows XP
came out and it had my documents, my
pictures, my, this, my, this, my, this.
And I thought it was really
funny to have my shoggoth.
Like this very friendly version of
this, this thing that is supposed to
be like insanity, creating horrible.
And it just stuck with me.
And one of the nice things is that, uh,
obviously nobody else uses this handle.
So it's very easy for me to get.
But that's where that's my
handle on Twitter and basically
any social media that I use.
And, uh, I, yeah, that's,
that's where that comes from.
And that's also my personal website.
>> Uh, well, I will do my best
to include as many links as I can
in the show notes for this episode
to get to those various places.
But there were a lot.
Um, so yeah, Andrew, thank you so
much for being on the show today.
This has been excellent.
And, uh, it's just been
great talking with you.
>> Thank you.
I appreciate this opportunity
and this has been a lot of fun.
>> That does it for us this week.
Thank you for listening to
the Haskell Weekly podcast.
I've been your host, taylor Fausak.
And with me today was Andrew Boardman.
If you want to find out more about
us, please check out our website,
which is HaskellWeekly.News.
This week, we are brought to you by
our employer, ITProTV, the e-learning
platform for IT professionals.
Use the promo code HaskellWeekly30
at checkout to get 30% off the
lifetime of your subscription.
Head over to ITPro.TV
to get started today.
Thanks for joining us and
we'll see you next week.